# Dal Palak

Ingredients:
1/4 cup Chana Dal (bengal gram)
1/4 cup Toor Dal (pigeon pea)
1/4 cup Yellow Moong Dal
2 cups chopped Fresh Spinach (palak)
1/2 teaspoon Cumin Seeds
A pinch of Asafoetida (hing)
1 large Onion, finely chopped
11⁄2 teaspoons Ginger­Garlic Paste (or crushed)
2 Green Chillies, finely chopped
1/2 teaspoon Coriander Powder
1 teaspoon Lemon Juice
1/2 tablespoon Oil
1/2 tablespoon Ghee (clarified butter)
1 cube Butter, for garnishing
Salt


Directions:
1. Wash all the dals for 2­3 times in water and soak them together for 15­20 minutes in water. You can use the only one type of dal or a mixture of 2­3 types of dal according to the availability. Drain excess water from dals and pressure­cook them with 11⁄2­cups water and salt for 3­whistles in a 3­5 liter capacity pressure cooker over medium flame.
2. Turn off flame and let pressure subside to natural level, it will take around 7­8 minutes. Open the lid and mash the dal gently with the backside of a spoon.
3. Clean the spinach and cut it. Wash the chopped palak. Add 11⁄2 cups palak in the small jar of a mixer grinder and grind into smooth puree. If it’s not getting pureed properly after multiple pulses, add 2­tablespoons water and try again.
4. Heat oil and ghee together in a pan over medium flame (ghee is used for a nice aromatic flavor). Add cumin seeds and asafoetida. When seed turn light brown, add chopped onion and sauté until it turns light brown. Add ginger­garlic paste, chopped green chilli and sauté for 30­40 seconds.
5. Add pureed palak (prepared in step­3), remaining 1/2 cup chopped palak and salt to taste.
6. Stir and cook for 4­5 minutes.
7. Add lemon juice, coriander powder, cooked dal and 1/2 cup water.
8. Mix well and cook for 6­7 minutes or until the dal turns little thick. Taste for the salt and add
more if required at this stage.
9. Turn off the flame. Transfer prepared spinach dal to a serving bowl and garnish with a cube
of butter. Serve it with your choice of rice or pulao.

Tips and Variations:
 http://foodviva.com/healthy-recipes/dal-palak/print/ 1/2
6/23/2017 Dal Palak Recipe with Spinach & Mix Dals - With Step By Step Photos » Print
If you are in hurry then skip soaking of dal (in step­1) and pressure­cook it for 1­more whistle (4 whistles total).
In this recipe, spinach puree is used for a nice green color. You can also add only chopped spinach or only spinach puree according to your choice.
To get the desired consistency, add more water (step­7) or cook longer (step­8). If you are preparing this healthy dal for kids then do not add green chillies.

